---
layout: post
title: Vodafone UK TopUp and Go /Prepay Mobile Broadband USB Dongle on Ubuntu 10.10
  Netbook Edition
date: '2010-11-07 12:48:50'
---

<p>I’ve just replace <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windows-7/">Windows 7</a> with <a href="http://www.ubuntu.com/netbook">Ubuntu 10.10 Netbook Edition</a> on my Asus EEE PC 1001p which I will probably blog more about later. In short, it’s brilliant and everything worked perfectly from the outset – apart from one thing (there has to be one!) and that was I couldn’t get my pre-pay Vodaphone broadband dongle to connect at all. </p>  <p>It was being recognised by Ubuntu and the tell-tale blue led was blinking on the dongle itself to indicate a mobile signal was present. So I went through the add mobile –broadband network wizard, choosing both the “Prepaid” and “TopUp and Go” packages, but the device would simply not connect.</p>  <p>I whipped the SIM out of my work BlackBerry, went through the add mobile connection and this time chose the “Contract” package (as it is) and this time it connected immediately.</p>  <p>My suspicions were now on the APN settings for the “Prepaid” and “TopUp and Go” presets. Prepaid was using “pp.vodafone.co.uk” for the APN and “TopUp and Go” was using “pp.internet”.</p>  <p>Luckily I had another (grown-up) laptop which had the “Vodaphone Mobile Broadband Lite” software installed. I went into “Advanced” mode, clicked the rounded “mast” button in the top-left corner and then “Diagnostics”. Then, on the “Network” tab I could see that the APN was set to “PPBUNDLE.INTERNET”, the user name was “web” and password “???” (which is also “web”).</p>  <p>I went back to the netbook, went through the add network wizard (again choosing “TopUp and Go”), but on the last screen I entered in the values I got off the laptop.</p>  <p>I tried to connect again and voila! straight in…</p>